---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Asking the Real Questions"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-07
published: true
labels:
  - StackOverflow
---

  Asking a question can be very daunting especially when you think you are asking a stupid question that you think everyone knows the answer to. But that is part of the learning process and growing as a person. But asking on an online forum like StackOverflow has a different set of rules that people need to follow in order to not get banned and get a good answer. StackOverflow has a reputation for being one of the more “gate-keepey” question forums on the internet and for good reason. Sometimes, people ask really bad questions that could’ve been answered by doing a simple Google search, looking for a similar question on StackOverflow, or by reading the documentation. Time is of essence and asking a bad question wastes someone else’s time when they could’ve been answering another user's questions. Let me show you how to ask a good question.

### Good Question
	
 A good question is focused on the subject at hand, and most of the time, the questions are short and concise. A good example is this user’s questions asking about obtaining 2D arrays containing a particular value. [Question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50095557/filter-2d-array-to-keep-all-rows-which-contain-a-specific-value) The user wants to get the keys that are linked to the subarrays that contain whatever value that the user wants to search for. For example, if the user wants to search for the subarrays that contain the value 5, the program would search the different arrays and return the keys that link to those subarrays. This follows the guide “How To Ask Questions the Smart Way” by Eric Steven Raymond in which the user sets a good example with a short snippet of code, sets a goal that the user wants to achieve, and asks what to do to obtain that goal. There are no grammatical errors, proper spacing and bolding to help signify to the user what they want, and it is easy to read so there is no confusion or any points that the user has to assume that might affect the outcome of the answer. The answers to the questions are short and concise as well, providing different code snippets, as well as links to documentation for those methods demonstrated in the snippets. Even though there are different ways of achieving the user’s goal, they all lead to the same result and are understandable enough to the point where the user can pick and choose whatever answer they want without confusion. 

### No-no Question
	
 A bad question is one that is too broad or something that is very obviously found doing a simple Google search. A bad question is something like this question [Question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30674771/proper-approach-for-grading-a-quiz) The user needs help in checking the correct answers for a quiz coded in C#. The user demonstrates one approach when the answers to the quiz are stored in a class named after the quiz, and then has if-else statements that check if the user’s answers matches the correct answers and does something if they either got it correct or incorrect. Although it does have some structure and tries to guide the user into helping them, the questions “Thoughts or suggestions?” leaves the user to a lot of different interpretations that might not fit the user’s needs. The question is very open-ended and as a result, the answers are broad themselves and don't talk about if the user’s suggestions are good or not. Although the answers are very good and efficient, it might not fit the user’s design and might have other variables that can affect the grading process that the people who answered the question might not know about. The question got closed since it wasn’t focused on one particular problem and as a result, it didn’t help the user at all. As a matter of fact, most of the answers suggest asking this question on another forum like CodeExchange or the programmers forum where it is more suitable. Even then, that is a debate since the question doesn’t fit as a “Good” question if we try to apply their rules to the question which means that this question was a bad question to ask in general. Personally, I think this question should’ve been asked to a group of co-workers where they are more knowledgeable on the infrastructure that you are creating code for instead of asking random strangers on the internet.

### The Lesson
	
 So what is the lesson that we learned here? Well, firstly, exhaust all your resources that you have access to. Your teachers, your co-workers, your classmates, your family, Google, documentation, whatever you can get instant access to, let it guide you. At least it’ll help you to form a better question then the one you had before you accessed those resources. If nothing happens, ask concise questions and tell everything to the users so that your environment is easily replicable and helps the users understand what is happening and that the answer they give you is the most effective and the most helpful they can offer. Software engineering, better yet, Computer Science as a whole is fastly evolving and oftentimes, can be the most confusing thing ever. A lot of smart software engineers spend half of their time on StackOverflow since it is a useful guide to very specific problems. What I’ve learned is that asking questions isn’t a bad thing, asking good questions will help you learn even more than simple questions that could’ve been answered using Google.
